Okay, this is Ron Shorn at University of
California, Berkeley,
interviewing Peter Boyce. And let's start at the
beginning. Peter, what's your full name? It's
Peter Bradford Boyce. And when and where were you
born? Born in New York City on November 30th, 1936.
How did you first get interested in astronomy? I
took a course from Bart Bach at Harvard. What were
you majoring in then? I was going to be pre-med. And
one course in astronomy, and it was all over.
Actually, I was prepared for it because my father,
we lived in the country, moved out of New York City
at the age of one and a half, one of the best
decisions in my life, I think. And moved to the
country, and my father was very interested in the
seasons. We did farming and the change of the sun
and the return of the sun. that allowed us to start
planning again was really important to my father,
who was a novelist by trade. And so we used to go out
and look at the northern lights and the
constellations appearance of a dog star showed
that winter was coming along. And so we always were
interested in the sky. And when I was in high
school, I went to the school whose football coach
was the father of Walter Orr Roberts. And Walter
Roberts came in and gave a couple of lectures in the
school. And of course, the kind of thing he was
doing at the high altitude observatory and making
time lapse movies of the solar prominence is
really exciting to a young kid. And I got
interested enough to want to build my own
telescope, which I did in high school. But I wasn't
thinking of that as a career. I'm not even sure I
knew that astronomy was a viable career at that
time. And I went to Harvard, really set to major in
pre-med because I wanted to be a doctor. had a
semester course to spare in chemistry, because I
took the full year of chemistry in half a year as an
advanced course. And I had a year of science to
spare and took an astronomy course, and that was
it. Did you switch majors? Well, I don't think we
had to really declare a major in the freshman year,
but I'm sure after that, I immediately declared as
a sophomore be an astronomy major, and we had 11
other astronomy undergraduate majors that year,
and they set up a whole series of courses designed
to accommodate both the astronomy major students
and the beginning graduate students. So we had a
mixture of courses that were absolutely
fantastic as a preparation for further work in
astronomy. What year did you get your bachelor's
degree? 1958. Then where did you go to graduate
school? I went to grad school in Michigan. Married
a woman who was a year behind me, and she
accelerated, and I waited six months. So I got to
Michigan in January of 59. And when I came to
Michigan, it was a time of great change. And they
came to Michigan to study under the faculty of
Aller, Liller, Miller, Mueller, Moeller, and
Goldberg. And by the time I left, all of them had
departed the scene except Freeman Miller. Yeah,
that was described as a supernova explosion.
Yeah, something like that. The legislature
wouldn't give them a big telescope. That's right,
yeah. So I got my doctorate in 63. Okay, who was your
thesis advisor and what did you do? I worked on the
Orion Nebula, used Bob Tull's scanner that he
built for his thesis, photoelectric spectrum
scanner, single channel, and observed the
hydrogen bomber decrement in the Orion Nebula.
And by comparing the strengths of the lines with
the theoretical calculations, I was able to show
that There was a lot of dust in the nebula or in front
of the nebula. It was central with the nebula,
however. I forgot to mention the date. This is June
7, 1993.
Okay, you got your PhD, and then presumably you got
a job. I got a job at Lowell Observatory. How did you
get that kind of job? Well, John Hall had done some
polarization studies in the Orion Nebula, and I
found an AAS abstract of it and no other reference
to it, so I called him and wrote him and asked for
further data, and he sent me some data and said it
was never published, though. But it, again, was
sort of confirmatory that there was a lot of dust
involved in the nebular complex. So I
said I was getting out soon, and also just because
of that, I asked him if there were any jobs around
Lowell and got a letter back inviting me to come and
interview. So Bill Sinton had gotten... NSF
grant, I guess, and had money to hire somebody.
When did you arrive at Moab? 1963 in September.
That September, about a week after I arrived, we
had an observing run with the interferometer. I
knew nothing about interferometry. It was an
interferometric spectrometer. a root keel prism
interferometer in the 2 micron range. And we had 10
clear days, 10 clear nights, actually. And what
telescope? Well, at that time, it was the 69-inch
telescope at Anderson Mesa at Lowell. And it was
the original Ohio State, Ohio Wesleyan
telescope. And so we worked our butts off. And I
thought, boy, this is quite different from my
thesis in Michigan, where I actually went to a New
Year's Eve party one clear night instead of going
out to the telescope. And it was March before I
could get back on the telescope again because of
the weather. So I thought I was in heaven. Of
course, that's the same thing as the Brouwer
fortnight. I never got 10 clear nights in a row
again on my whole 10 years at Lowell. It was an
exciting time. What objects were you observing?
We were observing cool stars, long period
variable stars. And one of the, the only place we
published it was in Stein Telescope, but we did
detect water, the water bands in Tri-Signe and
showed that they went away at maximum light and
were strongly there at minimum light. Global, of
course, is most famous for planetary work, but
they always did, from the very beginning, do
stellar and galactic work. Well, that's right.
Bill was doing a lot of planetary work originally,
and I think he kind of got discouraged, I guess,
when he had this false positive detection of the
C-H band on Mars. And so he was... doing stellar
astronomy at that time. But he liked to do the
instruments. He liked to fiddle with them and make
them work. And building on Larry Mertz's
interferometry experience where Larry and Bill
Sinton crossed paths at Harvard while I was an
undergraduate there, actually, And Bill had
built this interferometer, and it was really
working very well. I mean, we got some nice spectra
for the time. Of course, these days, what we would
spend all night on, they can do in 10 minutes. When
you started at Lowell, who was on the staff there?
Do you remember? Well, John Hall was the director.
E.C. Slipher was still alive, buried in the midst
of his cigar box filing system of all the plates of
Mars that they had ever taken at various
Lowell-funded telescopes. Bill Sinton was
there. Bill Tift was there. I
was trying to remember who was there when we first
came. Some of the exciting people. I think
when I showed up that year, Karl Rakos from Austria
was there for the first time.
Wojtek Cieminski had been there and gone. I
don't remember who else right now was on the staff
at the beginning. When you got there, was there
much planetary work being done? There wasn't a lot
of planetary work at that time. The Slifers were
taking some pictures, but there was a lot of
preparation, I think, for the coming Planetary
Center and excitement. I guess the big thing that
was going on was the ACIC project, the Lunar
Mapping Project, and the Aeronautical Chart and
Information Center. There were as many people
doing that as we had people on the Lowell staff. And
they tied up the 24-inch telescope most of the
time, doing a lot of visual filling in of details on
the map.
When you went there, did you feel that real
astronomers looked down on people that worked at
Lowell Territory? Well, I was too naive to know
whether to consider that. I was just charged up to
be going to a place that had such a name. I
was fairly well treated, I must say. And every
paper that I was given, I'd given at meetings and so
forth. It was received pretty well. I didn't seem
to feel too discriminated against. What I did feel
very strongly was that the old-time planetary
astronomers would look down upon, people who
would look at either an image. I mean, E.C. Slipher
would pick an image out. Now, he obviously was
looking through the telescope at the same time,
and this colored his vision of what he saw on the
photograph, but he would point out things and say,
this is low-lying morning haze, and this over here
is afternoon cumulus. when he had no basis for
being able to differentiate that kind of thing at
all on Mars. And so I also was very skeptical that
this was real science, just having somebody sit
there and give their opinions of what they were
actually seeing. What was the attitude of the
staff members towards the late Percival Lowell?
Oh, I guess we're pretty grateful that he had
founded the observatory. We're grateful that he
sent A.E. Douglas out looking for a place and
grateful of the citizens of Flagstaff who met the
train with a brass band and escorted him up Mars
Hill or what was to become Mars Hill and grateful
that it was clear and rather good observing
conditions at the time he was searching for the
site. You know, Lowell had a, I guess we sort of
wished that he had not passed away so soon because
clearly the observatory was eking along hand to
mouth on the endowment, the rather minuscule
endowment which the observatory had, and we all
felt, I think, that it would have been much bigger
had Lowell survived a little bit longer and the
estate hadn't been in such a turmoil and put such a
pinch on the observatory during the 30s and 40s.
When you were there, was Lowell still in the string
and bailing wire hand-to-mouth existence that it
was famous for? Oh yeah, sure. I mean, that was very
frustrating at times, and you couldn't buy enough
screwdrivers to be sure that you always had one at
the telescope, although Henry Giklis used to say
he was absolutely certain that the top of Anderson
Mesa was littered with screwdrivers six inches
deep somewhere, because he had bought so many. You
stayed at Lowell for 10 years. Yes. And what did you
work on? Well, I started out to work with Bill
Sinton and then on the Orion Nebula again. And then
I built a spectrum scanner funded by the
observatory itself and started to use that on
planetary nebulae.
Then I built, following Carl Rakosh's visit,
where he developed what he called an area scanner,
which was a way to wipe a slit across the star, a
double star in particular, and get a profile of the
two components, which you could then deconvolve
and get much more accurate photoelectric
magnitudes for stars which were normally too
close to resolve in conventional photometry.
this was such a powerful technique that i began to
use it and put a spectrum i mean a scanning aperture
in front of my spectrum scanner at scanning and
right angles to the dispersion and i used then the
spectrum scanner as a movable square bandpass
very well defined bandpass filter and
turn to my love of gaseous nebulae and would scan
these planetary nebulae and H-alpha, H-beta, and
the oxygen lines and so forth, and look at the
structure of the planetary nebulae. And then one
night, Mars was up in the sky, and people were kind
of excited because it was an opposition. And I
looked at it. And of course, it's a gorgeous sight
for somebody who'd never paid much attention to
planets before. And I said, well, I'll try to scan
it. Scanning a planetary nebula meant for me, a
planetary nebula meant for me being on there for
half an hour, 45 minutes, and then building up
enough statistics that you would have a
reasonably noise-free profile of the
distribution of the element you were looking at
across the nebula. So I did the same thing to Mars,
and in 30 seconds, I had the biggest, brightest,
most noise-free profile that I'd ever seen in my
life. And so I thought, well, this is maybe
something I should do. And I looked at Mars. I
looked in the red. I looked in the blue. And the
profiles were so different. And of course, you
can't see any details on the surface in blue. And
you could in red. And I thought, well, gee, I could
measure some of the differences here. And I began
to look at the planetary literature to see what was
known and what kind of accurate measurements had
been made of the surface photometry of the
different areas of the planet. I found there was
nothing, really nothing. And I said, well, this is
fine. So I started to work on the planets then. Did
you ever get any NASA support for that work, or was
it observatory? If I got, well, John Hall had the
peculiar, and as I later found out, absolutely
false assumption that if you put in a proposal and
it was turned down, you got a black mark in the
agency's book. And so you should never put in a
proposal unless you were absolutely sure it was
going to be funded. And he didn't think that my
suggestions for proposals would immediately get
funded, and so he didn't want me to send them in. I
think that my salary was partly paid by the NASA
contract from time to time. This was after the
Planetary Center had been established and Bill
Baum had come. Ten years after you came, had the
observatory, had NASA money really changed? Oh
yes, it changed it a lot. First of all, the
Planetary Center gave us a new building, really
major facilities
for a lot of things and money for instrumentation
that was highly welcome. and made a major impact.
We expanded the staff in the workshops and things
like that, but it just made a difference in night
and day. At the same time, Bill Sinton and I had
gotten into using locally available computers
first down at the business school at the NAU, which
was the first computer in Flagstaff, an old IBM
1620. And we rewrote the Fourier transform
program that Bill was using to produce the spectra
from his interferograms to run on the 1620. And
then we... finally persuaded Lowell that they had
to buy an IBM 1130, which was sort of the first
reasonably priced computer that a smaller
institution could afford to really get that had
sufficient capability to be a worthwhile
computer. So we got the 1130, and Bill and I were put
in charge of it, and I eventually became sort of the
director the de facto director of the computer
center for four years. After Lowell, where did you
go? After Lowell, I came to NSF as a program
director for astronomical instrumentation for
supposedly for two years and stayed for six, I
guess, 73 to 79. And then where did you go?
last year or the next to the last year that stay at
nsf i got a department of commerce science and
technology fellowship and spent a year on capitol
hill working for mo udall came back discovered
that the nsf as an agency didn't want to know about
my experience on the hill didn't want to put it to
any use at all and in fact the congressional office
at nsf thought that any suggestions I made were
poaching on their territory and so I was really
what I had learned was just never put to use at all
and I was so disgusted that this kind of thing was
going on when I could see that there were things
that NSF should do to change its image in Congress
and I applied for the job of
executive officer of the AAS, which at that point
came open, I sort of applied as a lark and
discovered that my ideas of where the society
should go and the search committee's ideas were
really so congruent as to be a remarkable match.
And they hired me, and that's where I've been ever
since. Well, as the executive director, you have
the continuity that the other officers lack. One
thing I want to ask you from your standpoint
is the creation of separate sub-societies, such
as the original one, which is high energy
astrophysics, but then vision for planetary
astronomy. There was a lot of worry that this would
split up astronomy and all that sort of stuff. Do
you think that the, well, what do you think about
these divisions? I have mixed emotions.
I think by and large it's a very important thing.
When the planetary division, let me start with the
high energy astrophysics division, they
have to be members of the parent society in order to
be members of the division. And that has worked out
very well. It's given an impetus to the high energy
astrophysics, which I think was very important at
the time the division was started. Well, weren't
those guys threatening to go to the American
Geophysical Union? No, this is the high energy.
Oh, this is high energy. Then I think the first
division, in fact, was the planetary division.
And I think that also was very important because
planetary astronomy sort of had three homes.
There were a number of people who were astronomers
and belonged to the AAS. There were a number of
people who were atmospheric physicists who
belonged to the, well, I suppose the American
Meteorological Society. And then the planetary
surface geologists mostly belonged to AGU. And
there was no one place where they could feel at
home. And part of the major rationale for
establishing the planetary division was, in
fact, to give them a home where they didn't have to
pay too much in the way of dues, so we did have the
affiliate membership, division affiliate
membership, with very low dues, but it provided an
opportunity where they all had a home and you could
meet and have all these people attend the meeting
without having to pay the much higher dues of the
parent society. And I think that's a very
important function, and I think it's been very,
very healthy for the planetary field as a whole.
People always make comments like, well, it's too
bad that they're diverging and everything. But I
just wonder in the good old days, for example, did
Alistair pay any attention whatsoever to
planetary studies? Oh, no. There was no. That was
getting back to one of our earlier questions. That
was a really important thing to highlight the fact
that, in fact, people were doing what I was doing
and trying to bring some kind of modern technology
and accuracy and real scientific judgment to the
planetary studies. And that was just not very well
appreciated at all by the conventional stellar
astronomers. I mean, we weren't alone. The solar
physicists feel, have felt left out from time to
time as well. And I think having the division and
having the ability to present talks at the main AAS
meetings was very, very important in helping the
rest of the community to become at least more aware
that Planetary science was not just somebody
holding up a photograph and saying, well, that's
ground haze over there on the limb. And
now they understand that if you're going to study
the circulation of the Martian atmosphere, you
have to really do... pretty complex models, even
though there's no oceans. It makes it a simpler
system, the model. But you model that, and then you
compare with the observations, and you have the
spacecraft going there. But it's all done by, it
isn't just pictures anymore, but it's real good
science that's being done. And I think that's
appreciated much more now than it was. And I think
the formation of the division by giving them a
strong point to stand on and help the assimilation
or the understanding of planetary astronomy and
the assimilation of planetary astronomy into
the general overall astronomy picture. Well,
you've just about answered my next question, is do
you think that planetary astronomer has a higher
standing now among real quote unquote
astronomers than it did when you got your PhD? Oh,
yeah, absolutely. No question about it. And it's
partly due to the influx of NASA money and the jobs.
But that isn't all. I mean, at the beginning, I
think that the sort of consensus would be that the
and you want to treat this kind of carefully, I
think, but I think the consensus was the original
people funded by NASA were thought among the
community to be those who couldn't get jobs in real
astrophysics. But as we get more and more people
coming in from atmospheric physics and
geophysics,
ended working in planetary astronomy, they bring
their techniques and their kind of rigor that goes
on in planetary astronomy now is so much higher
than it was even in the very early stages of NASA
funding that I think we do have a much higher class
of people doing planetary astronomy now than we
did before. And so the easy NASA money, although it
fueled a tremendous growth, also had a negative
effect in that you would probably reach further
down into the barrel of people than was probably
wise in terms of the quality of people that you were
funding. And again, that's a reputation that took
a while to dissipate, and I'm not sure it's
completely dissipated yet. Well, now, in
addition to having their own sub-society,
planetary astronomers got their own journal,
Icarus. And so you don't see planetary papers in
the astrophysical journal or astronomical
journal. Of course, other people made the comment
that there never were very many in there anyway.
But do you think that the fountain that, let's face
it, Carl Sagan made Icarus. He didn't found it, but
he really turned it into something better than
what it was. Do you think that's been good for
planetary astronomy? Or astronomy in general?
Yes and no. I mean, I think journals like Solar
Physics did a major disservice to the solar
community. I think the case is less clear in
Icarus, because the solar papers would have been
published in the Apche under Helmut, for sure,
although they might not have been under Chandra.
And I think having them split off, they agree, was a
major problem and a disaster. And they're trying
to come back more into the AAS journals now. In the
case of planetary astronomy, I'm not so sure that
that's the case. I think that having Icarus and
building up its reputation to be a journal that
people are, in fact, proud to publish in has been
good for planetary astronomy. And I don't think
the case is as clear cut that it was damaging to
planetary astronomy, because I do think that the
planetary papers would not have been published in
A.J. It's certainly not in Astrophysical
Journal. And again, A.G.U. would have published
some of them, but I think having Icarus has been an
important outlet for the planetary papers, and
it's run by the planetary astronomers
themselves, the editors of Planetary
Astronomer, and the kinds of topics that are of
importance, the editorial judgment on these
topics is much better than it could have been in
either the AJ or the APJ. In your opinion, is
planetary astronomy real astronomy? Of course. I
mean, astronomy is science, and planetary
astronomy is real science. There's a curious
parallel between planetary astronomy and radio
astronomy in that in the 40s and 50s, and even into
the early 60s, they were considered pariahs, not
really respectable. And as you may recall, most of
the early radio astronomy stuff was published in
Proceedings of the Institute of Radio Engineers,
where my first published paper was, too. And
along with that goes the fact that planetary
studies were never looked down on by radio
astronomers. Why do you think this is? Well,
because planets are one of the brightest radio
sources and one of the planet there I mean the radio
astronomers started building instruments the
first thing they did was look at the planets and of
course that's a new area nobody's ever looked at
him in the radio region before and so it was it was
real science real physics and they they applied a
lot of rigor
to the to this planetary study and so they helped I
think to build the understanding among planetary
astronomers that they had to be a lot more rigorous
than they traditionally had been before. When you
were at NSF, this was at a time when NASA was doing
the lion's share of funding for planetary
astronomy in this country. Was NSF giving out any
money for planetary work? Oh, yes. Yeah, they did.
Ground-based radio astronomy, planetary
astronomy was done.
at NSF, there were some asteroid studies, I think.
Those were under Harold Lane's direction. And
he's still around, I think, as far as I know. Might
be an interesting person to talk to. How did you
people split the pie with NASA? Did you
meet together or send notes and say, we're going to
fund this? Or didn't you talk at all with NASA? Oh,
well, we just tried to shove as many proposals over
to NASA as we could, saying that they had a bigger
program and they were better able to judge the
worth of the proposal. It was an understanding. We
used to meet at least once a year with the program
directors, and certainly we all knew each other
and call each other on the phone and talk about,
well, I got a proposal here. What are you funding in
this program? But planetary astronomy was being
supported at the rate of $30 million a year at NASA
and $1 million at NSF. What can I say? On a different
point of view, I guess this is about six questions
in one. But what I want to ask you is, what do you
think the public thinks about astronomy and
astronomy? And then in particular, what do they
think about planetary astronomy and
astronomers? And then what should they think?
This is your opinion now. Well, I think that the
public loves astronomy. I think the public
doesn't think there's any difference between
planetary astronomy and stellar astronomy. They
look at it all as being the study of the universe,
which I think is the way it should be looked at.
As to what So I think they're equally fascinated by
the concepts of black holes and Big Bang and the
seeing to the edge of the universe and the fact that
we have galaxies of 10 to the 11th suns and so on.
Although as we heard today, maybe it's 10 to the
10th suns and 90% more unseen matter. But they
think these concepts are fascinating. But they
also just love the idea of exploring other planets
and sending spacecraft there and looking at the
pictures that come back and understanding storms
on Jupiter and dust storms on Mars and going out to
the depths of Pluto, I mean, Uranus, and finding
rings on the planets and so on. I think this is a
fascinating story. Every aspect of it is
fascinating to the public. What should they think
of astronomy and astronomers? I think they should
be fascinated by it. It's a fascinating field, and
it's the age-old question, you know, where did we
actually come from? It's why religion was
invented, or at least part of the reason why
religion was invented, to explain the creation.
And astronomy is... pushing back the boundaries
where we step from where we know beyond to where we
don't know and where we speculate and where we have
to make it part of faith or what have you. Even given
this public interest, have astronomers in
general in this country and planetary
astronomers in particular, you think they've
done a good job selling themselves to the public
and the Congress? No, they haven't. We've been
riding on
sort of the Cold War. Everybody must be telling you
this. We've been riding on the Cold War fear of
Russia and the importance of having a space
program, the importance of going to the moon and
Mars first and raising the American flag. And all
of this has helped us to develop
or I developed the funding for astronomy as part of
this other great job that we have to do for the
country. And that's all changed.
What do you think was the effect, if any, I guess
maybe I should just, I left that sort of quickly.
What's happened I think is that astronomers have
sort of mined this mother load of fear of the
Russians and excitement with knowing the
universe and the money has just sort of come
without them having to really pay back much. and
that's not going to work anymore, and I think we
have not done an appropriately good job of having
the Congress and the public understand really
what astronomy is all about, what astronomers can
do, what kind of things we've done that are useful
to the nation and have been adapted and used
elsewhere, and the importance of just having
basic research, curiosity-driven research
funded because you never know when you're going to
stumble on something that you can't explain, like
in the early 1900s, early part of the century, the
calculation that the sun could not possibly
support itself except by the gravitational
energy released by its contraction, and then it
would burn itself up in a few hundred thousand
years, which was incompatible with geological
record. And that great conundrum led to... really
pushed the development of understanding the
atomic structure of the atom and the atomic
energy. And do we really know that the black holes
that we see and the engines in the centers of
quasars are driven by by gravitational energy.
We're going back to the same old source, but maybe,
maybe, just maybe it's new physics. You never know
when something like that is going to be absolutely
crucial, will be discovered because somebody is
curious about a mystery and turns into be one of the
most practical uh developments the important
developments that we've had in our civilization
this brings up a practical point uh decades now
ground-based and probe of exploration of the
solar system no trace of life ever existed
anywhere except on earth what what kind of
negative effect do you think that had on planetary
astronomy funding and interest but astronomy in
general I don't think it's had much of an impact on
astronomy funding yet anyway. On planetary
astronomy, it probably...
I don't think it's had a major impact. The failure
to discover life forms on Mars. I think what's more
exciting to the people is not whether something
else is out there of a low life form I
think what's more exciting is, in fact, the
ability of man to perhaps live there, mankind to
live there and colonize it. I think that's a very
powerful attraction for the public. What do you
think killed planetary astronomy in the early
part of this century? I don't know. I don't know
enough about what went on. I've heard stories from
Jerry Crone of pages of observing notebooks being
excised with a razor blade at Lake Observatory
because, I forget who it was, somebody's drawing
showed changes on Mars that the person, the
director didn't think was appropriate to have
made public. In other words, he thought that the
person was seeing things in the middle of the night
that weren't there. What do you think is the state
of astronomy right now? Good, bad, or
indifferent? It's fabulous right now, and the
prognosis for the future is looking very grim just
because of the change in the funding paradigm that
we see facing us right now. And it's not grim to the
point that we will get back to a level of funding
that we had in the 1950s, but... We've had
unprecedented growth for the last two decades. I
mean, over the last decade, the Astronomical
Society has grown by 40%. The funding, NASA
funding, has grown by a factor of four over that
decade.
NSF funding has been decreasing slowly since
1984. But overall,
we've had a decade of almost unprecedented
growth. And I think what's going to happen is that
will just kind of tail off and stabilize. The
problem is that what we're trying to do now is that
the way astronomy developed, it needs photons. In
order to get photons, you need large collecting
area, and you have to use every photon you get
efficiently. So we had this growth of... sort of
three to four meter size telescopes
in, I guess, 1960s, then in the early 70s. And then
in the 1980s, what we've done is develop our
ability to use the photons better. The
instrumentation has been our focus. Well, if
you're going to build a big telescope with a large
collecting area, you're talking about a lot of
bucks. If you're building more efficient
instruments, that can be done a lot more cheaper.
So a lot of our advances and ability to work on this
kind of thing has been done rather cheaply in the
1980s with the development of array detectors for
infrared, CCD detectors, which are up to a hundred
times more efficient than photographic plates
for the visible region. Moving to new spectral
regions, going out into space and riding on the
coattails of the space program. Well now, those
kinds of things advantages are all gone. In space,
the missions are being charged to astronomy, so
that the full costs have to be borne essentially by
the science. And the ground, you've run out of
improvements that you can make in the
instrumentation. So in order to make further
improvements and stretch farther back toward the
beginning of time, you have to go bigger
telescopes. And you're talking about big bucks.
And so astronomy has come to a point where they have
to spend big bucks now, just at a time where we
geared up to do it. And we've spent some of them, as
in the Hubble telescope. But now the continuation
of the back to X-ray and infrared and the
ground-based telescopes is requiring the
expenditure of large amounts of money. And that's
a difficult impasse we're at right now, to need
these large projects to make further progress
just at a time when the growth of astronomy is
tailing off and probably going to decrease a
little bit. Well, it's exactly a similar
situation that prevails in planetary astronomy
with probes. Well, I say this. I'm including the
space missions. infrared and x-ray, but the same
thing is true with the, you know, we're not going to
get major Galileo missions anymore. But those are
the kinds of missions that we really need to do the
job right. A lot of people have been making a lot of,
getting a lot of publicity, and I guess getting
money to do research on topics of great practical
importance to Joe Blow in the street, and I'm
talking about things like watching out for killer
asteroids in comets, search for
extraterrestrial intelligence, studies of the
ozone hole and everything. Well, this is all
reasonable science, but do you think that that's
kind of pushing it a little bit too much, or what? Or
is it just get all the money you can doing whatever
you want to do? Well, some of them are very
important, like the ozone hole. We really have to
understand, I mean, that's a long-term project
that we have to start collecting data on as soon as
we can. I think the amount of money spent on that is
excessive, probably, because Congress saw that
as something that should be solved. And so you
solve things with money, and they don't
understand... that it takes long and persistent
effort to make progress. Same way with the war on
cancer. They threw a lot of money at it because they
were going to solve it, but they haven't made that
much progress because the money was not wisely
spent. And I am afraid that we might be in that same
kind of thing with the ozone. But in terms of the
search for extraterrestrial intelligence, I
think there's a rationale for doing that right now
if we really want to know and that is the tremendous
growth in the use of the radio spectrum by
terrestrial uses and services. If we don't search
the microwave spectrum now, it'll essentially be
blanked out because of all the local interference
we're developing. So that's an important thing to
do right now if we're going to make a really
coherent search. We've never had a...